v0.0.5 (April 1, 2016)
----------------------

New features
####################

* There's now a `flexible transformer
  <oemof.core.network.entities.components._transformers.TwoInputsOneOutput>`
  with two inputs and one output.
  (`Issue #116 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof-solph/pull/116>`_)
* You now have the option create special groups of entities in your energy
  system. The feature is not yet fully implemented, but simple use cases are
  usable already. (`Issue #60 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof-solph/issues/60>`_)

Documentation
####################

* The documentation of the `electrical demand
  <oemof.demandlib.demand.electrical_demand>` class has been cleaned up.
* The API documentation now has its own section so it
  doesn't clutter up the main
  navigation sidebar so much anymore.

Testing
####################

* There's now a dedicated module/suite testing solph constraints.
* This suite now has proper fixtures (i.e. `setup`/`teardown`
  methods) making them (hopefully) independent of the order in which they are
  run (which, previously, they where not).

Bug fixes
####################

* Searching for oemof's configuration directory is now done in a platform
  independent manner.
  (`Issue #122 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof-solph/issues/122>`_)
* Weeks no longer have more than seven days.
  (`Issue #126 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof-solph/issues/126>`_)


Other changes
####################

* Oemof has a new dependency: `dill <https://pypi.org/project/dill>`_. It
  enables serialization of less common types and acts as a drop in replacement
  for `pickle <https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html>`_.
* Demandlib's API has been simplified.


Contributors
####################

* Uwe Krien
* Stephan Günther
* Guido Pleßmann

