v0.4.0 (April ??, 2020)
-----------------------


API changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Change the import of oemof-solph due to unbundling oemof solph.
  The import statements have changed, for example
  `from outputlib.views import processing` --> `from oemof.solph import processing`.
  There are further changes for the modules `views`, `helpers`, `economics`,
  `logger`, `network`.

* The attribute `capacity` of the `GenericStorage` describing the current
  absolute stored energy/material/water etc. has been renamed to `storage_content`.
  In the `GenericStorageBlock` and `GenericInvestmentStorageBlock`,
  the attribute `init_cap` has been renamed `init_content`. This change is
  intended to avoid confusion with `nominal_storage_capacity` or capacity in terms
  of installed capacity.

* Rename the flow attribute `actual_value` to `fix` and remove `fixed`.

* Allow to limit count of concurrently active flows in group of flows.
  (Flows have to be NonConvex, the limit can be an upper or lower one.)

* New constraint `shared_limit` allows to restrict the weighted sum
  of arbitrary variables to a corridor.
  This can be used, e.g. to model shared space is used to store wood pallets
  and logs with their respective energy density.

New features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Allows having a non equidistant timeindex. By adding the
    calculate_timeincrement function to tools/helpers.py a non
    equidistant timeincrement can be calculated. The EnergySystem
    will now be defined by the timeindex and the calculated
    timeincrement.

* Allows non-convex investments for flows and storages.
    With this feature, fix investment costs, which do not dependent on the
    nominal capacity, can be considered.

* Add user warnings for debugging. A UserWarning is raised for
  untypical uses even though this kind of usage is valid if you really
  know what you are doing. This will help users to debug their code but
  can be turned of for experienced users.

New components
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* something

Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Restructure and clean-up documentation due to the unbundling
* Improved documentation of ExtractionTurbineCHP

Known issues
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* something

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* something

Testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Skipping github link checks when testing locally
* Fix travis sphinx build test

Other changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The ``loss_rate`` of `~oemof.solph.components.GenericStorage`
    is now defined per time increment.
* The parameters' data type in the docstrings is changed from
  `numeric (sequence or scalar)` to `numeric (iterable or scalar)`
  (`Issue #673 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof-solph/issues/673>`_).
* Add python 3.8 support, remove python 3.5 support.

Contributors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Caterina Köhl
* Jonathan Amme
* Uwe Krien
* Johannes Röder
* Jann Launer
* Daniel Rank
* Patrik Schönfeldt
