docs/whatsnew/v0-5-3.rst, before:

v0.5.3
------

API changes
###########

* The `OffsetConverter` expects two dictionaries now instead of the
  `coefficient` tuple. These are, `conversion_factors` with the slope relative
  to the `NonConvex` flow, and `normed_offsets` with the normed offsets
  relative to the `NonConvex` flow.
* The `NonConvex` attribute must be specified for one of `Flow` at the inlets
  or outlets of the `OffsetConverter`. `min`, `max` and `nominal_value` have to
  be specified for the same `Flow`.

New features
############

* `OffsetConverter` can now handle multiple inputs and outputs
* There are two methods available for the `OffsetConverter` to calculate the
  slope and normed offset relative to the `NonConvex` input given the `min`,
  `max` and the respective efficiencies/ratios, i.e.
  `slope_offset_from_nonconvex_input` and `slope_offset_from_nonconvex_output`.

Documentation
#############

Bug fixes
#########

* Fix custom attributes of Sink, Source, GenericCHP and Converter components
  not being properly passed to base Node class

Other changes
#############

* Unified (usage) documentation for `OffsetConverter`
* Remove approach to model cellular systems (was more confusing than it helped)

Known issues
############

Contributors
############

* Lennart Schürmann
* Richard Keil
* Francesco Witte
* Patrik Schönfeldt

Commit message:

Release 0.5.3a2
This alpha in particular pins numpy to < 2.0.0, so that Pyomo works.

docs/whatsnew/v0-5-3.rst, after:

v0.5.3
------

API changes
###########

* The `OffsetConverter` expects two dictionaries now instead of the
  `coefficient` tuple. These are, `conversion_factors` with the slope relative
  to the `NonConvex` flow, and `normed_offsets` with the normed offsets
  relative to the `NonConvex` flow.
* The `NonConvex` attribute must be specified for one of `Flow` at the inlets
  or outlets of the `OffsetConverter`. `min`, `max` and `nominal_value` have to
  be specified for the same `Flow`.

New features
############

* `OffsetConverter` can now handle multiple inputs and outputs
* There are two methods available for the `OffsetConverter` to calculate the
  slope and normed offset relative to the `NonConvex` input given the `min`,
  `max` and the respective efficiencies/ratios, i.e.
  `slope_offset_from_nonconvex_input` and `slope_offset_from_nonconvex_output`.

Documentation
#############

Bug fixes
#########

* Fix custom attributes of Sink, Source, GenericCHP and Converter components
  not being properly passed to base Node class

Other changes
#############

* Unified (usage) documentation for `OffsetConverter`
* Remove approach to model cellular systems (was more confusing than it helped)

Known issues
############

* Incompatible to numpy >= 2.0.0. This is because of Pyomo, but we have to
  enforce a lower version in our package.

Contributors
############

* Lennart Schürmann
* Richard Keil
* Francesco Witte
* Patrik Schönfeldt
