v0.6.1 (November 17th, 2025)
----------------------------

API changes
###########
* GenericStorage requires explicitly set `Investment` objects if the `invest_relation` 
  keywords are used. Automatic creation of the `Investment` objects is removed.

New features
############
* Two new keys added to `Results` class (experimental) to calculate variable costs and 
  investment costs via `results["variable_costs"]` and `results["investment_costs"]`.
* Nodes (buses and components) can now have a `parent_node` and create `subnode` s.
  This allows constructing nested structures in the energy system graph.

Documentation
#############
* Add documentation of Results class.

Bug fixes
#########
* Setting `invest_relation_input_output` now actually creates the relational 
  constraint.

Other changes
#############

* Experimental component `SinkDSM` (unmaintained) has been removed
* Unmaintained, non-working functionality for three-phase electricity has been
  removed.
* Make claer `InvestNonConvexFlowBlock` and `NonConvexFlowBlock` are parallel
  structures and the former is no specialised version of the latter. In particular,
  the set `NONCONVEX_FLOWS` is now called `FIXED_CAPACITY_NONCONVEX_FLOWS`.

Contributors
############

* Patrik Schönfeldt
* Eva Schischke
* Lennart Schürmann (UMSICHT)
* Uwe Krien
* Antonella Giannitelli
* Pierre Francois
* Francesco Witte

Acknowledgements
################

Work of PS was funded by the German Federal Ministry of Research, Technology
and Space (BMFTR) within the project "WärmewendeNordwest" (grant no 03SF0624L).
