v0.2.1 ()
++++++++++++++++++++++++++


API changes
###########

* The function create_nx_graph only takes an energysystem as argument, 
  not a solph model.


New features
############

* It is now possible determine minimum up and downtimes for nonconvex flows.
  Check the `oemof_examples <https://github.com/oemof/oemof_examples>`_
  repository for an exemplary usage.
* Startup and shutdown costs can now be defined time-dependent.
* The graph module has been revised.
  * You can now store a graph to disc as `.graphml` file.
  * You can add weight to edges
  * Labels are attached to the nodes
* Two functions `get_node_by_name` and `filter_nodes` have been added that 
  allow to get specified nodes or nodes of one kind from the results dictionary.

New components
##############



Documentation
#############



Known issues
############

* It is not possible to model one time step with oemof.solph. You have to model
  at least two timesteps
  (`Issue #306 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/306>`_). Please leave a
  comment if this bug affects you.

Bug fixes
#########

* Shutdown costs for nonconvex flows are now accounted within the objective
  which was not the case before due to a naming error.
* Console `script oemof_test_installation` has been fixed.
* New console script `test_oemof` has been added.

Testing
#######



Other changes
#############

* Internal change: Unnecessary list extensions while creating a model are avoided,
  which leads to a decrease in runtime.
* The negative/positive gradient attributes are dictionaries. In the constructor
  they moved from sequences to a new `dictionaries` argument.
  

Contributors
############

* Cord Kaldemeyer
* Stephan Günther
* Simon Hilpert
* Uwe Krien
* Jann Launer
