doc/whatsnew/v0-3-0.rst, before:

v0.3.0 (January ??, 2019)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++


API changes
###########

* The ``param_results`` function does not exist anymore. It has been renamed to
    ``parameter_as_dict`` a time ago but the old name still worked for a while
    along with a ``FutureWarning``
    (`Issue #537 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/537>`_).

New features
############

* Now it is possible to model just one time step. This is important for time step based models and all other models with an outer loop (`Issue #519 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/519>`_).

* Namedtuples and tuples as labels work now without problems. This makes it
    much easier to find objects and results in large energy systems
    (`Issue #507 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/507>`_).

* Groups are now fully lazy. This means that groups are only computed
  when they are accessed. Previously, whenever nodes where added to an
  energy system, groups where computed for all but the most recently
  added node. This node was then only grouped upon addition of another
  node or upon access of the groups property.

* There is now an explicit `Edge <oemof.network.Edge>` class. This means
  that an energy system now consists of `Buses <oemof.network.Bus>`,
  `Components <oemof.network.Component>` and `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>`.
  For implementation reasons, `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>` are still
  `Nodes <oemof.network.Node>`. If you know a bit of graph theory and
  this seems strange to you, think of these `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>`
  as classical graph theoretic edges, reified as nodes with an in- and
  outdegree of one.

New components
##############

* something

Documentation
#############

* something

Known issues
############

* something

Bug fixes
#########

* The timeincrement attribute of the model is not set to one anymore.
    In earlier versions the timeincrement was set to one by default. This was a
    problem if a wrong time index was passed. In that case the timeincrement
    was set to one without a warning. Now an error is raised if no
    timeincrement or valid time index is found
    (`Issue #549 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/549>`_).

Testing
#######

* Automatic test coverage control was implemented. Now a PR will not be
    accepted if it decreases the test coverage.
* Test coverage was increased to over 90%. A badge was added to the
    `oemof github page <https://github.com/oemof/oemof>`_ that shows the
    actual test coverage.

Other changes
#############

* something

Contributors
############

* Uwe Krien
* Johannes Röder
* Patrik Schönfeldt
* Stephan Günther

Commit message:

Mention blinker signals in the changelog

doc/whatsnew/v0-3-0.rst, after:

v0.3.0 (January ??, 2019)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++


API changes
###########

* The ``param_results`` function does not exist anymore. It has been renamed to
    ``parameter_as_dict`` a time ago but the old name still worked for a while
    along with a ``FutureWarning``
    (`Issue #537 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/537>`_).

New features
############

* Now it is possible to model just one time step. This is important for time step based models and all other models with an outer loop (`Issue #519 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/519>`_).

* Namedtuples and tuples as labels work now without problems. This makes it
    much easier to find objects and results in large energy systems
    (`Issue #507 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/507>`_).

* Groups are now fully lazy. This means that groups are only computed
  when they are accessed. Previously, whenever nodes where added to an
  energy system, groups where computed for all but the most recently
  added node. This node was then only grouped upon addition of another
  node or upon access of the groups property.

* There is now an explicit `Edge <oemof.network.Edge>` class. This means
  that an energy system now consists of `Buses <oemof.network.Bus>`,
  `Components <oemof.network.Component>` and `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>`.
  For implementation reasons, `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>` are still
  `Nodes <oemof.network.Node>`. If you know a bit of graph theory and
  this seems strange to you, think of these `Edges <oemof.network.Edge>`
  as classical graph theoretic edges, reified as nodes with an in- and
  outdegree of one.

* `Energy systems <oemof.energy_system.EnergySystem>` now support blinker_
  signals. The first supported signal gets emitted, whenever a `node
  <oemof.network.node>` is `added <oemof.energy_system.EnergySystem.add>` to an
  `energy system <oemof.energy_system.EnergySystem>`.

  _blinker: https://pythonhosted.org/blinker/

New components
##############

* something

Documentation
#############

* something

Known issues
############

* something

Bug fixes
#########

* The timeincrement attribute of the model is not set to one anymore.
    In earlier versions the timeincrement was set to one by default. This was a
    problem if a wrong time index was passed. In that case the timeincrement
    was set to one without a warning. Now an error is raised if no
    timeincrement or valid time index is found
    (`Issue #549 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/549>`_).

Testing
#######

* Automatic test coverage control was implemented. Now a PR will not be
    accepted if it decreases the test coverage.
* Test coverage was increased to over 90%. A badge was added to the
    `oemof github page <https://github.com/oemof/oemof>`_ that shows the
    actual test coverage.

Other changes
#############

* something

Contributors
############

* Uwe Krien
* Johannes Röder
* Patrik Schönfeldt
* Stephan Günther
