v0.3.0 (January ??, 2019)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++


API changes
###########

* The ``param_results`` function does not exist anymore. It has been renamed to
  ``parameter_as_dict`` (`Issue #537 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/
  issues/537>`_).

* The storage API has been revised. Please check the
  `API documentation <https://oemof.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/
  oemof.solph.html#oemof.solph.components.GenericStorage>`_ for all details.

* The OffsetTransformer is now a regular oemof.solph component. It has been
  tested and the documentation has been improved. So it has been move from
  *custom* to *components*. Use oemof.solph.components.OffsetTransformer (
  `Issue #522 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/522>`_).

New features
############

* Now it is possible to model just one time step. This is important for time
  step based models and all other models with an outer loop
  (`Issue #519 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/519>`_).

* The storage can be used unbalanced now, which means that the level at the end
  could be different to the level at the beginning of the modeled time period.
  See the `storage documentation <https://oemof.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
  oemof_solph.html#genericstorage-component>`_ for more details.

* Namedtuples and tuples as labels work now without problems. This makes it
  much easier to find objects and results in large energy systems
  (`Issue #507 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/507>`_).

New components
##############

* something

Documentation
#############

* The template for docstrings with equations (docstring of block classes) has
  been improved.

Known issues
############

* something

Bug fixes
#########

* The timeincrement attribute of the model is not set to one anymore.
  In earlier versions the timeincrement was set to one by default. This was a
  problem if a wrong time index was passed. In that case the timeincrement
  was set to one without a warning. Now an error is raised if no
  timeincrement or valid time index is found
  (`Issue #549 <https://github.com/oemof/oemof/issues/549>`_).

Testing
#######

* Automatic test coverage control was implemented. Now a PR will not be
  accepted if it decreases the test coverage.
* Test coverage was increased to over 90%. A badge was added to the
  `oemof github page <https://github.com/oemof/oemof>`_ that shows the
  actual test coverage.

Other changes
#############

* something

Contributors
############

* Uwe Krien
* Johannes Röder
* Patrik Schönfeldt
