docs/showcase_examples.rst, before:

.. _showcase_examples_label:

~~~~~~~~~
Showcases
~~~~~~~~~

On this page we collect showcases applications of oemof.solph. If you want to
add your example here, please open an issue on GitHub and let us know. The
source code of the application should be accessible freely, so other users can
learn from your project.

.. card::

    **OpenPlan Tool**
    ^^^

    .. image:: /_files/open-plan-tool-screenshot.png
      :align: center
      :alt: openplan-tool
      :target: https://open-plan-tool.org

    The OpenPlan Tool is an online app with a grafical user interface, that
    let's you create, solve and explore your :code:`EnergySystem`
    interactively. You can use the online variant or clone it to run it on
    self-hosted servers.

.. card::

    **Spreadsheet Energy System Model Generator**
    ^^^

    .. image:: /_files/sesmg-screenshot.png
      :align: center
      :alt: sesmg
      :target: https://spreadsheet-energy-system-model-generator.readthedocs.io/

    The Spreadsheet Energy System Model Generator is a tool to build and
    organize your model through an excel interface. Furthermore it provides a
    user dashboard in the form of a locally hosted webserver using streamlit.

Commit message:

Add blog reference from showcase page

docs/showcase_examples.rst, after:

.. _showcase_examples_label:

~~~~~~~~~
Showcases
~~~~~~~~~

On this page we collect showcases applications using or emplyoing oemof.solph.
These tools are working in a stable state and should be usable from scratch.
Furthermore, in our blog on oemof.org, we sometimes post examples implemented
`by the community <https://oemof.org/category/showcase/>`__.

If you want to add your example here, please open an issue on GitHub and let us
know. The application should be in a stable state and the source code should be
accessible freely, so other users can explore and learn from your project.

.. card::

    **OpenPlan Tool**
    ^^^

    .. image:: /_files/open-plan-tool-screenshot.png
      :align: center
      :alt: openplan-tool
      :target: https://open-plan-tool.org

    The OpenPlan Tool is an online app with a grafical user interface, that
    let's you create, solve and explore your :code:`EnergySystem`
    interactively. You can use the online variant or clone it to run it on
    self-hosted servers.

.. card::

    **Spreadsheet Energy System Model Generator**
    ^^^

    .. image:: /_files/sesmg-screenshot.png
      :align: center
      :alt: sesmg
      :target: https://spreadsheet-energy-system-model-generator.readthedocs.io/

    The Spreadsheet Energy System Model Generator is a tool to build and
    organize your model through an excel interface. Furthermore it provides a
    user dashboard in the form of a locally hosted webserver using streamlit.
